# Setting up an SSH Key for HPC access

Making an ssh key in Windows is not a challenge, but it can be confusing to copy that ssh key to a remote server. I am detailing everything I did in order to get easy access to the HPC via VSCode.

## Setting up a config and logging in for the first time

First, I set up an `.ssh/config` file. I organized it as follows:

- `Host` represents the Host alias that you use when connecting to a remote server with ssh. Instead of having to specify an address each time, you can just use `ssh {Host}` to connect to your remote.
- `User` represents your username on the remote server
- `Hostname` is the full address for your remote connection
- `ForwardX11` allows you to run graphical applications remotely
- `ForwardX11Trusted` specifies whether or not to trust any forwarded X11 connections

```markdown
Host {Host alias}
    User {username; result of running `whoami` in the remote terminal}
    Hostname {Host URL}
    ForwardX11 yes
    ForwardX11Trusted yes
```

Example:
```markdown
Host hpc
    User johndoe1
    Hostname johndoe1-hpc.research.edu
    ForwardX11 yes
    ForwardX11Trusted yes
```

Now, running `ssh {Host alias}` should elicit a password prompt for connecting to your remote server; you don't need to specify the full remote address anymore each time you want to connect.

## Setting up password-less entry

Connecting to a remote can be made even faster by setting up password-less entry.

First, you want to set up an ssh key. This can be done in Powershell (or Mac/Linux) as shown below:
> ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048

Now, in bash someone might use `ssh-copy-id` to forward the public key you generated to the remote server for authentication; for Mac/Linux, this is easy:

> ssh-copy-id {username}@{Host URL}

However, Powershell doesn't have this utility.

I worked around this by using the link here:

- <https://chrisjhart.com/Windows-10-ssh-copy-id/>

Specifically, this is the command I ran:
> type $env:USERPROFILE\.ssh\id_rsa.pub | ssh {Host alias} "cat >> .ssh/authorized_keys"
